README.md, before:

# AzerothCore with Playerbots (Dockerized)

This project provides a single Docker container running AzerothCore with the Playerbots module, including a built-in MySQL server. It uses Ubuntu 24.04 as the base image.

## Prerequisites

- Docker
- Docker Compose

## Quick Start (Easy Install)

This method uses the pre-built image from GitHub Container Registry.

1.  **Start the Server:**
    ```bash
    docker compose up -d
    ```
    *Note: The first run will be significantly longer as it compiles the server binaries and downloads client data. Subsequent runs will be faster.*

2.  **Monitor Progress:**
    You can check the logs to see the compilation and startup progress:
    ```bash
    docker compose logs -f
    ```

## Build from Source

If you want to build the image yourself (e.g., to modify the code):

1.  **Uncomment the `build: .` line in `docker-compose.yml`.**
2.  **Build and Start:**
    ```bash
    docker compose up -d --build
    ```

## Accessing the Server Console

The servers run inside `tmux` sessions within the container. To access them:

### World Server Console (GM Commands)
```bash
docker exec -it azerothcore bash -c "tmux attach -t world-session"
```
Or use the alias inside the container:
```bash
docker exec -it azerothcore bash
# Then inside the shell:
wow
```
(Press `Ctrl+B` then `D` to detach without stopping the server)

### Auth Server Console
```bash
docker exec -it azerothcore bash -c "tmux attach -t auth-session"
```
Or use the alias inside the container:
```bash
docker exec -it azerothcore bash
# Then inside the shell:
auth
```

## Configuration & Data

The setup persists data in the `./acore-data` directory on your host machine:

-   `./acore-data/mysql`: Database files.
-   `./acore-data/build`: Compilation build files (speeds up recompilation).
-   `./acore-data/env`: Contains binaries (`bin`), configuration (`etc`), and data (`data`).

You can edit configuration files in `./acore-data/env/dist/etc` on your host machine and restart the container to apply changes.

## Database Access

The MySQL server is exposed on port `3306`.
-   **User:** `acore`
-   **Password:** `acore`
-   **Database:** `acore_world`, `acore_characters`, `acore_auth`

### Remote MySQL Access

To allow a remote user (e.g., from your host machine or another container) to access the database, you can configure it using a `.env` file.

1.  Copy `.env.example` to `.env`:
    ```bash
    cp .env.example .env
    ```
2.  Edit `.env` and uncomment/set the variables:
    ```ini
    MYSQL_REMOTE_USER=myuser
    MYSQL_REMOTE_PASSWORD=mypassword
    MYSQL_REMOTE_IP=192.168.1.5  # IP address allowed to connect
    # Use '%' for any IP (not recommended for production)
    ```
3.  Restart the container:
    ```bash
    docker compose up -d
    ```

### Adding Custom Mods

You can easily add extra modules (like Transmog, Autobalance, etc.) to your server.

**Method 1: Using `.env` (Recommended)**

1.  Add the `AC_MODS` variable to your `.env` file with a space-separated list of Git URLs:
    ```ini
    AC_MODS=https://github.com/azerothcore/mod-transmog.git https://github.com/azerothcore/mod-autobalance.git
    ```
2.  Restart the container. The startup script will clone the mods and automatically trigger a recompilation of the core.
    ```bash
    docker compose up -d
    ```

**Method 2: Using Volume Mount**

1.  Place your mod directories inside `./acore-data/modules` on your host machine.
2.  Restart the container. The script will detect the new files and recompile the core.

## Container Details

-   **OS:** Ubuntu 24.04
-   **Ports:**
    -   `3724`: Auth Server
    -   `8085`: World Server
    -   `3306`: MySQL
-   **Environment:**
    -   `acore` user is automatically created for the database.
    -   `root` user is used inside the container shell.

Commit message:

docs: add shell aliases documentation to README
Introduces a new section listing convenient shell aliases available
when accessing the container shell. This includes shortcuts for
attaching to tmux sessions (wow, auth), stopping the server, and
editing configuration files (pb, world).

README.md, after:

# AzerothCore with Playerbots (Dockerized)

This project provides a single Docker container running AzerothCore with the Playerbots module, including a built-in MySQL server. It uses Ubuntu 24.04 as the base image.

## Prerequisites

- Docker
- Docker Compose

## Quick Start (Easy Install)

This method uses the pre-built image from GitHub Container Registry.

1.  **Start the Server:**
    ```bash
    docker compose up -d
    ```
    *Note: The first run will be significantly longer as it compiles the server binaries and downloads client data. Subsequent runs will be faster.*

2.  **Monitor Progress:**
    You can check the logs to see the compilation and startup progress:
    ```bash
    docker compose logs -f
    ```

## Build from Source

If you want to build the image yourself (e.g., to modify the code):

1.  **Uncomment the `build: .` line in `docker-compose.yml`.**
2.  **Build and Start:**
    ```bash
    docker compose up -d --build
    ```

## Accessing the Server Console

The servers run inside `tmux` sessions within the container. To access them:

### World Server Console (GM Commands)
```bash
docker exec -it azerothcore bash -c "tmux attach -t world-session"
```
Or use the alias inside the container:
```bash
docker exec -it azerothcore bash
# Then inside the shell:
wow
```
(Press `Ctrl+B` then `D` to detach without stopping the server)

### Auth Server Console
```bash
docker exec -it azerothcore bash -c "tmux attach -t auth-session"
```
Or use the alias inside the container:
```bash
docker exec -it azerothcore bash
# Then inside the shell:
auth
```

### Shell Aliases

The following convenient aliases are available when you access the container shell (`docker exec -it azerothcore bash`):

-   `wow`: Attach to the **World Server** console (tmux session).
-   `auth`: Attach to the **Auth Server** console (tmux session).
-   `stop`: Stop the servers (kills tmux server).
-   `pb`: Edit `playerbots.conf` with nano.
-   `world`: Edit `worldserver.conf` with nano.

## Configuration & Data

The setup persists data in the `./acore-data` directory on your host machine:

-   `./acore-data/mysql`: Database files.
-   `./acore-data/build`: Compilation build files (speeds up recompilation).
-   `./acore-data/env`: Contains binaries (`bin`), configuration (`etc`), and data (`data`).

You can edit configuration files in `./acore-data/env/dist/etc` on your host machine and restart the container to apply changes.

## Database Access

The MySQL server is exposed on port `3306`.
-   **User:** `acore`
-   **Password:** `acore`
-   **Database:** `acore_world`, `acore_characters`, `acore_auth`

### Remote MySQL Access

To allow a remote user (e.g., from your host machine or another container) to access the database, you can configure it using a `.env` file.

1.  Copy `.env.example` to `.env`:
    ```bash
    cp .env.example .env
    ```
2.  Edit `.env` and uncomment/set the variables:
    ```ini
    MYSQL_REMOTE_USER=myuser
    MYSQL_REMOTE_PASSWORD=mypassword
    MYSQL_REMOTE_IP=192.168.1.5  # IP address allowed to connect
    # Use '%' for any IP (not recommended for production)
    ```
3.  Restart the container:
    ```bash
    docker compose up -d
    ```

### Adding Custom Mods

You can easily add extra modules (like Transmog, Autobalance, etc.) to your server.

**Method 1: Using `.env` (Recommended)**

1.  Add the `AC_MODS` variable to your `.env` file with a space-separated list of Git URLs:
    ```ini
    AC_MODS=https://github.com/azerothcore/mod-transmog.git https://github.com/azerothcore/mod-autobalance.git
    ```
2.  Restart the container. The startup script will clone the mods and automatically trigger a recompilation of the core.
    ```bash
    docker compose up -d
    ```

**Method 2: Using Volume Mount**

1.  Place your mod directories inside `./acore-data/modules` on your host machine.
2.  Restart the container. The script will detect the new files and recompile the core.

## Container Details

-   **OS:** Ubuntu 24.04
-   **Ports:**
    -   `3724`: Auth Server
    -   `8085`: World Server
    -   `3306`: MySQL
-   **Environment:**
    -   `acore` user is automatically created for the database.
    -   `root` user is used inside the container shell.
